perf-tuning: add column-prune.md (#3246)
pingcap/docs: column-pruning.md

---
title: Column Pruning
summary: Learn about the usage of column pruning in TiDB.
---

# Column Pruning

The basic idea of column pruning is that for columns not used in the operator, the optimizer does not need to retain them during optimization. Removing these columns reduces the use of I/O resources and facilitates the subsequent optimization. The following is an example of column repetition:

Suppose there are four columns (a, b, c, and d) in table t. You can execute the following statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select a from t where b> 5
```

> In this query, only column a and column b are used, and column c and column d are redundant. Regarding the query plan of this statement, the `Selection` operator uses column b. Then the `DataSource` operator uses columns a and column b. Columns c and column d can be pruned since the `DataSource` operator does not read them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this query, only column a and column b are used, and column c and column d are redundant. Regarding the query plan of this statement, the `Selection` operator uses column b. Then the `DataSource` operator uses columns a and column b. Columns c and column d can be pruned because the `DataSource` operator does not read them.
```

> Therefore, when TiDB performs a top-down scan during the logic optimization phase, unnecessary columns are pruned to reduce waste of resources. This scanning process is called "Column Pruning", corresponding to the `columnPruner` rule. If you want to close this rule, refer to [The Blocklist of Optimization Rules and Expression Pushdown](/blacklist-control-plan.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, when TiDB performs a top-down scanning during the logic optimization phase, redundant columns are pruned to reduce waste of resources. This scanning process is called "Column Pruning", corresponding to the `columnPruner` rule. If you want to disable this rule, refer to [The Blocklist of Optimization Rules and Expression Pushdown](/blacklist-control-plan.md).
```
